# BASICS

Here you will learn the basics of programming

# INFO

Before you start there are a few things you **need** to know.

- **COMPUTERS START COUNTING AT 0**

So for example to get the **first** item in a list you want to ask for `[0]` not 1

- **THERE ARE SOME THINGS YOU CAN'T NAME ANYTHING**

These are usually keywords like `return`

For a full list, click [here](https://flexiple.com/python/python-reserved-words/#section1)

# VARIABLES

## INTS/FLOATS

**"Variables"** sounds like some complicated thing but it is one of the fundimentals of a modern programming language.

Variables are like algebra such as:

`x = 5`

but can have more detailed names like:

`player_points = 13`



Like algebra, we can do things to variables once we have created them.

`player_points += 1`

this adds one to `player_points`

Here is a list of operands:

- `+=` **add**
- `-=` **minus**
- `*=` **times**
- `**=` **power** *(like square `5 ** 2 = 25`)*
- `/=` **divide**
- `//=` **floor divide** *(divide and round down no matter what)*


  
We can also **redefine** the variable as the same or different type

`player_points = 5`



These type of number variables are called either:

**ints** *(normal numbers)* or **floats** *(decimals)*

But there are other types of variables, such as:

## STRINGS

Strings are defined the same as ints and floats but with speech marks **(IT DOESN'T MATTER WHICH YOU USE)**

`my_text = "Hello, World"`

or inverted commas

`my_text = 'Hello, World'`



We can also add strings together using `+`

`'Hello, ' + 'World! By ' + mytext`

Or if you want to get fancy use an **FSTRING**

Like so:

`f'Hello, World! By {mytext}'`

(Here im using `{}` to add a variable to the text. This is **better** because you dont have to worry about **type errors**.)

These both output the same things.

## LISTS

Lists in Python are, lists of stuff

A list can have **multiple types of items** in it

Even, **other lists**

Here is how you create a list:

`fruits = ['apple', 'orange', 'banana']`

Now lists are very useful for storing information but, **how do we get something from a list?**

Now if you read the info section you will know that to get the **first** item from a list *(in this case: `apple`)* we need to use **the number zero** because **computers start counting at zero**

So, to get the **first** item from this list we simply say:

`fruits[0]`

This will give us: `apple`, the first item in our list.

Now to get the other items from the list it is the same. *(just with different numbers obviously)*

So `fruits[1]` will give us `orange` the **second** item in our list.

Now to get the **last** item in our list we can either say:

- `fruits[2]` This gives us the **third** item

or

- `fruits[-1]` This gives us the **last** item

As mentioned previously we can also have lists in lists like so:

`names = [['John', 'Smith'], ['Jane', 'Mary', 'Doe']]`

Now, `names[0]` will give `['John', 'Smith']`

And to get just the first name we have to say:

`names[0][0]`

Which will give us: `'John'`

Now here is a question for you to try:

Type in this code: *(For the names list)*

`names = [['John', 'Smith'], ['Jane', 'Mary', 'Doe']]`

And try to get **Jane's last name**

**NOTE:** Use `print(your guess)` to **show the output**

# FUNCTIONS

Now, **how do we output?**

To output we use a:

## BUILT IN

These are built in functions that are very useful.

**NOTE:** Here the outputs will be shown as if they were printed and shown like this: `// output`

Such as:

- `print('Hello, World!')` *(SHOWS TEXT)*

`// Hello, World!`

- `enumerate(['John', 'Bob', 'Lucas'])` *(LIST OF TUPLES = (INDEX, ITEM))*

**NOTE:** Enumerate doesn't return a list object so I am using list(...) to show this output

`// [(0, 'John'), (1, 'Bob'), (2, 'Lucas')]`

- `float('2.5')` *(TURNS INPUT INTO FLOAT)*

`// 2.5`

- `input('What is your name? )` *(RETURNS USER INPUT)*

`// (User's input)`

- `int('3')` *(TURNS INPUT INTO INT)*

`// 3`

- `len(['John', 'Bob', 'Lucas'])` *(RETURNS LENGTH OF INPUT)*

`// 3`

- `list('abc')` *(TURNS INPUT INTO LIST)*

`// ['a', 'b', 'c']`

- `range(3)` *(RETURNS A LIST OF NUMBERS BETWEEN THE INPUT/S)*

**NOTE:** Range doesn't return a list object so I am using list(...) to show this output

- `// [0, 1, 2]`

- `round(3.14159, 2)` *(ROUNDS TO FIRST INPUT TO (THE SECOND INPUT) DECIMAL PLACES)*

`// 3.14`

- `str(4)` *(TURNS INPUT INTO STRING)*

`// '4'`

- `type('Hello')` *(RETURNS THE TYPE OF INPUT)*

`// <class 'str'>`

